---
title: "An open letter to my ex"
date: 2025-06-06
---

I am famously a student who convinces herself that she knows how to use different softwares but really doesn’t. I’m not saying this to be modest. The more I learn, the more it feels like I know nothing, so Google has been seeing a little too much of me. Currently, I’m slipping into the “I don’t know anything about LaTeX” phase.

That is because it has been 6 months since my breakup with the one and only Overleaf!

My first taste of LaTeX was on Overleaf, the easiest and friendliest editor you’ll ever find. On Overleaf, your workflow is

1. Press “compile.”
2. You’re done.

It’s as simple as that. No running BibTeX or Biber for bibliographies. No downloads. Nothing. There’s even a toolbar at the top of Overleaf and a text editor that makes the whole thing look like a glorified version of your favorite word processor. Not that that’s necessarily a bad thing, but Overleaf…really? You couldn’t have prepared us better for the real world?

The “real world” being local editing and the broader world of computer science, of course. Here are my slightly embarrassing beginner mistakes. You can laugh at me, learn from me, or both. 

- Downloading the editor but not TeX itself.
- Not understanding the concept of a “workflow” and thinking it was just something people said. (Note to self: when people use terms you don’t understand, *learn those terms* so you don’t fall victim to misinformation.)
- Thinking the auxiliary files were viruses.
- Thinking the README was a scam. (Like: README! README! Hi. You opened me! So about your car’s extended warranty…)
- Thinking TeXShop was actually good. 

That last one is totally a preference. Sorry. We’re keeping it factual! 

And, of course, here are some lessons learned while moving away from Overleaf:

- *Everything* is connected. LaTeX. Git. File structures. Compilers. Editors. Shells. Scripting. All of it. 
- Git is really, really cool. Also, Git is not GitHub.
- The terminal is actually super cool too. It's not just a random appendage that serves no purpose!
- The auxiliary files are not viruses. However, it's helpful to clear them once in a while.
- The README is also not a scam unless you make it one.
  
So I’ve moved away from Overleaf to bigger (and perhaps better) things. But Overleaf will always be a special place I’ll revisit someday. 

Anyway, this is my open letter to Overleaf.

Dear Overleaf,

Oh, the days we’ve had. You’ve stuck by my side so faithfully even when I was mad at you for my own mistakes. You never called me out for having a skill issue on my worst days; instead, you presented my errors patiently and even offered solutions. 

We’ve stuck together through thick and thin, through every missing bracket and every overfull hbox. Although you asked me to pay you $200 to make longer documents, it is only right that such a helpful website is compensated fairly. But Overleaf, dear Overleaf, I don’t have money to give you. If only we lived in an alternate universe!

Come visit me.

Your #1 lover and enemy,

Emily

\end{mytimewithoverleaf}
