---
title: "What I learned from biochemistry"
date: 2025-07-03
---

Today marks the last day of my first taste of college biochemistry, and it was, in short, stressful but also rewarding. I learned a lot of new material that consolidated the biology and chemistry facts I had already been familiar with. 

That being said, biochem is not easy, but approaching it in the right way helps a lot. These were the 5 most helpful techniques that helped me learn biochemistry, but learning is not one-size-fits-all, so if you have different ways of learning it that works better for you, by all means use those!

**1. Don't memorize; visualize.**

I learned that this is the best way to learn biochem concepts on the first day of (real) lecture. We had one simple fact to memorize: when pH < pKa, the amino acid is protonated, and when pH > pKa, the amino acid is deprotonated. Now, this alone can be memorized in seconds. But when it’s combined with the task of memorizing the properties and codes of 20 amino acids, functional groups, and more, it seems like a lot just to remember that one little thing.

So I started thinking about it this way: as pH increases, the protons drop off of the molecule because a higher pH means a more basic environment, meaning fewer free H+ ions. Honestly, I didn’t even think that much about the last part. If you can just imagine your pH increasing and your hydrogens dropping off the ionizable parts of your molecule, it’s much easier than trying to remember which value is greater than which or which value is smaller than which. If you can focus on the visual aspect, the words will come to you.

**2. Learn basic data analysis!!!!!!!!**

Data analysis is *so essential* that I cannot emphasize it enough. It doesn’t have to be too fancy - I went in knowing only Excel, some Python, a little R, and the meaning of very, very basic stats terms, and I didn’t even have to use most of these skills - but if you don’t know *anything* about manipulating data, you’re going to spend more time than you would want to trying to figure out what words mean or how to use a spreadsheet. If you can’t interpret things like standard deviation or coefficient of determination (i.e. R-squared), you’ll have a much harder time trying to make sense of your data after labs.

**3. Make mind maps.**

Biochemistry is not so much a set of discrete concepts than it is a web of concepts that flow into each other nicely. Whether you’re literally making maps in your mind or drawing out mind maps, making connections is a great way to make sure you know all your concepts, especially if you forget something, because then you can logically reason your way to the answer based on what you do know.

And of course, everything comes back :)

**4. Be truthful in post-lab activities.**

We’ve all messed up an experiment before, but one of the worst things you can do is to pretend that you did it correctly. There’s no guarantee that you won’t get points off, but for this course, if you messed up an experiment, as long as you made a note that you knew what the correct procedure was, you were fine. 

**5. Take your time.**

I know this is ironic, because I was fighting against the tricks of time the entire three weeks, but if I were to do it all again, I’d slow down and soak up all the material. Appreciate it. Allow yourself to fall in love with it. Remember why you started in the first place.

It’s funny how we all wanted to go home at the start, but now that we’re actually going home, it’s kind of bittersweet. I’m eternally grateful to my friends, my TAs, and my professor for laying a strong foundation for me in the field of biochemistry. I can’t wait to see what you all do next!
