---
title: "LaTeX beginner mistakes and simple fixes"
date: 2025-06-08
---

Beginner mistakes in LaTeX are pretty much inevitable unless the first thing you do when you learn a new software is to go to StackOverflow and type, “What are some beginner mistakes to avoid?”, which you presumably wouldn’t do if you’re just trying to get the hang of the language. So here are some of my top beginner mistakes and solutions!

#### 1. Underfull hbox (badness 10000)

My documents used to always look like this:

```latex
\section{lalallaa}
\noindent This is some text. \\\\
This is some more text in another paragraph. \\\\
And here is some more text.
```

It took me a little too long to figure out the solution to this problem. I fed it into ChatGPT and tried different combinations until it gave me something that worked but wasn’t ideal: a strange mix of `\phantom` and `\hfill`. But there is a much easier way to achieve this look without all those underfull errors: the beautiful package `parskip` for spaces between paragraphs without all the manual line breaks!

#### 2. “Latex”

This should be self-explanatory. As someone who pronounced this word horribly wrong from 7th grade to freshman year, I understand how hard it is to break the habit, but please, for the love of all that is good in this world, please, please, please don’t say “latex.”

#### 3. Manual formatting overload

Defining (or re-defining) macros used to be the most intimidating thing ever for me, but that was before finding out that it’s actually easy.

```latex
\newcommand{\emphasise}[1]{\textbf{\underline{\textit{#1}}}}
```

saves you the trouble of doing this:

```latex
\textbf{\underline{\textit{A super important point}}}. Some more words. \textbf{\underline{\textit{Another super important point.}}}
```

#### 4. Not making the code readable

My first projects were a complete mess in terms of readability and aesthetics, but doing these things helped a lot:

- breaking the preamble into sections (keeping in mind the ones that need to be loaded in a specific order)
- commenting on not just what each package does, but what it does specifically in that particular project
- keeping sections consistent
- clear, concise captions and labels

#### 5. Not escaping special characters

LaTeX throws an absolute tantrum if you don’t escape characters with special meanings. The backslash is all-powerful - use it! :)

#### 6. Fighting LaTeX

Note: don’t fight typesetting. You will not win. You will end up with chaos (and canonically having an existential crisis while hiding under your desk). Trust the process and let LaTeX work its magic.

#### 7. Ignoring errors

Running away from your problems doesn’t work. That’s a life lesson right there!

#### 8. `$sin(x)$`

This is just a deviation from convention, but judging whether it’s pedantry or a helpful piece of advice will be left as an exercise to the reader.

Say it with me: *mathematical operators and functions should not be in italics!* Thankfully the solution to this is super easy: 

 ```latex
$\sin(x)$
```

That's much better!

And there we have it - eight beginner mistakes and how to resolve them! Hopefully this was helpful to you (or amusing, at least). Have a blessed day!
