---
title: "My LaTeX origin story"
date: 2025-06-01
---
There's no better way to start this blog than to start at the very beginning, a very good place to start!

A few years ago, I attended a math seminar in preparation for a competition. Everyone's equations were aesthetic except for mine. As a twelve-year-old (or maybe eleven?) who knew nothing about programming whatsoever, my younger self reached out to not one, not two, but three different moderators practically begging for an explanation. Watching people write in LaTeX was tantamount to watching people perform witchcraft. Their answers were all the same: "We use LaTeX!" They proceeded to type out two or three very long sentences describing what LaTeX was. I still didn't get it and kept asking more questions, which they answered with more technical jargon, which made me ask even more questions. (They were definitely pretty much done with me at that point.)

After that seminar ended, it was easy to teach myself how to typeset math equations. The process was actually super intuitive. But later on, not even a year later, I quickly dropped that skill and nearly forgot about it, because the equations never actually got compiled. So I'd be stuck with a random `$a^2+b^2=c^2$` with no way of making it into the beautiful equation it ought to become.

Two years later, a university student was helping me learn biochemistry and the scientific method through an introductory research project. I was thrilled with the opportunity to meet her, of course, because she was really nice and knowledgeable, but her first question beyond the "getting-to-know-you" portion took me back to that math seminar and my attempts at making my responses look as pretty as everyone else's and failing miserably while trying to make sense of what LaTeX was. She asked, "Do you know LaTeX?"

That was a little bit unexpected, because at this point I thought that the only use for it was to format equations, and was wondering if she meant that my entire project would be written in equations. When she explained what it was, I asked why we couldn't just use Google Docs. She said we could, but it wouldn't be ideal. Then, when she pulled out an entire document, complete with pictures, tables, headings, and a table of contents, the decision was clear - figuring out whatever this magical thing was that turned your writing into something that looked like it came straight out of a textbook was the right move. She emailed me *Learn LaTeX in 30 Minutes* and sent me on my way to learn this new tool.

The timing was quite convenient, because we had guests over that day, and learning LaTeX gave me an excuse to stay in my room all night doing "very important work" (i.e. debugging for *five hours straight*). It did look like very important work to someone who wasn't familiar with LaTeX, but my actual document had hardly two lines of text on it. My preamble was composed of the messiest lines I'd ever laid eyes on. Still, the work went on, asking my teacher for help, even going to the wrong teacher's office (twice) because if there was one thing that was messier than my preamble, it was my spelling.

Now, a year and a half later, as I'm wrapping up my passion project, *Texing it Easy*, and preparing to introduce LaTeX to the broader community, I have one message for my middle school self: Don't worry. We find out what that thing that looks like witchcraft is. We use it regularly. And one last thing: we learn how to pronounce it correctly.
