---
title: "To life"
date: 2025-07-30
tags: [poetry]
---

*Optimism! Because, as they say, you only live once. I know I write depressing poems, but this one is not **that** depressing. Trying something different.*

*Edit: I also talk about the ocean in pretty much everything. But that's what happens when you grow up on the coast and spend half your childhood on the beach.*

everybody’s broken somehow <br>
watch, hold the string taut <br>
let your fingertips dance <br>
and pluck a note <br>
that breaks the glass on the countertop <br>
with the damask tablecloth <br>
masking fractures with pomposity <br>
but even broken glass emits brilliant colors <br>
if light hits its surface <br>
at just the right angle <br>
everybody’s wearing a disguise <br>
and it’s easy to pass people by <br>
it’s easy to pretend it’s all real <br>
when you can’t penetrate their mind <br>
the way light from the sun <br>
penetrates that glass, so helpless on the floor <br>
now watch the tide rise and fall <br>
with the seasons, life ebb and flow <br>
with the tide, and see <br>
how small we are? <br>
who are we to play God, to act as though <br>
we have all the answers when all we have <br>
are questions and questions and questions and <br>
why? why are we alive? no one knows how to answer, <br>
but if anything <br>
in this world is divine, it must be <br>
the placid hills, it must be the pristine sea, <br>
it must be a baby’s first breath, <br>
it must be the softness of dawn, <br>
the quiet that follows a rainstorm. <br>
if divinity <br>
is not a story <br>
they tell to free the conscience, <br>
if it is not a myth <br>
that is based on helplessness, <br>
then it must be <br>
the raging sea, <br>
one last breath before <br>
the unfamiliar image of dusk, <br>
storms breaking on merciless oceans. <br>
and everybody’s broken somehow, <br>
yes, we’re all broken somehow -  <br>
let’s not hide it, now - <br>
but we hold no significance, <br>
not in the least, <br>
so carry on! <br>
take someone’s hand <br>
and hold it tight <br>
and vow that you’ll never forget: <br>
we have only a lifetime <br>
to do as we please <br>
to sing to the heavens, <br>
to love with your whole heart <br>
and be free - <br>
don’t wait for the light. <br>
